All right.
So in this video we'll pick random numbers and translate that to a random computer player who plays
rock paper scissors.
So we're going to build on what we already have.
We won't redo all of the game Magic but to actually generate the random number as the hint says here
you need to use something called Rand ant.
So if you did google it you would end up here on the documentation.
Or you could end up a lot of places but this is one of the places you would end up and what you see
here is that there's something called random which is it's a module.
We haven't talked about modules yet so I'm not going to get into the weeds too far.
Basically it's code that we can include that this comes kind of built in with Python but but it's not
fully built in the sense that you have to include it yourself.
So you don't have to download anything you don't have to go install anything.
You just have to tell Python hey I want to use that one thing in this file.
So it's part of random the random module.
And let's just do a search for Rand and because there's a lot of things different functions that come
with random but Rande and so random dot Rand and returns a random integer and it's called.
And in this case such that it's between A and B inclusive.
So see that it's less than or equal to Enric Grich less than or equal to be greater than or equal to
A.
So what we can do is generate one between zero and two for example.
So then our choices would be 0 1 and 2.
So let me show you how to use it first.
So I'm actually going to open up just Python 3 and if I try and just do random rants from 0 to 2 It
tells me random is not defined and makes that a bit larger.
So what we need to do first is say I need to import random just like that.
Now I can do just recall that line random rant from 0 to 2.
So it's going to be a random integer from either 0 1 or 2 as you can see it was there we go.
I got to one as well.
So there are other random functions that will generate a random float but we don't want that really
because an integer is much easier.
OK so we're going to use this and write a conditional that says if the random number is zero computer
equals scissors or paper or whatever you want to assign it to.
So I'm going to quit out of here and I'm going to make a new file and I'm going to call this one computer
version.
I just call it v3 to be consistent.
Dot p y.
And I'll open that one up and I'll just start by pasting in our old version and we can go ahead and
delete basically the part where we ask player 2 for input and I'm going to comment everything else out
for now and just start by getting our basic logic to generate a random number to work.
So I'll even comment that all out and the first thing we'll do up top is add that import random so that
we have access to random rant.
OK.
And then I'm going to make a variable.
And I'm just going to call it Rand.
Numb equals random dot Rand int from 0 to 2.
Now to be clear we could do from 1 to 3 or 10 to 12 or negative 5 to negative 7 it's totally up to you
dear to two is the easiest but we just need three random integers.
And then what we're going to do is basically say all right if Rand numb equals Let's start with zero
then computer move equals rock and I'll just call it computer.
So then down here it will be comparing player 1 to computer.
And then we'll do an Elif Rande now equals 1.
If that's the case let's say that computer equals paper and then we can just do an else because there's
not any other situation other than two because the way this rant works it returns 0 1 or 2.
And so in that case we'll say computer equals scissors.
So let's test this let's just print computer OK so we generate random number from 0 to 2 inclusive and
then we assign a variable computer to be rock paper scissors and then we print out computer.
So let's try it.
Python 3 I call it v3.
OK so we've got scissors scissors scissors paper paper.
Give me a rock.
Come on I know you can do it.
Geez.
Come on.
There we go.
So it is possible.
OK.
So we finally got a rock so you can see those are the three options paper scissors or rock.
So I mean I stopped doing that.
So I just don't go crazy.
And let's go back to our code and now we need to make some changes.
The first thing that I'll do is rather than player one I'll just call this variable player and then
all my logic down here I need to update the sensitive player one.
We're going to do player and we're going to compare that to computer.
Same thing here.
Well change this to be computer.
Anytime we see player 2 it's computer but otherwise the logic is the same.
And then player 1 I'm just changing the player just for clarity's sake.
It might be confusing if we had a player 1 and No player 2 and then we'll update all these messages
in just a moment.
OK so that looks good to me.
The next thing we'll do is update so player wins it's going to copy that and replace player one wins
and then instead of player two will say computer wins and I'm going to copy that and duplicate it instead
of player 2 wins.
Change it to computer wins.
OK.
So let's just see if we have any errors.
It's always a good chance that we might.
OK.
What do you know.
I'm missing a colon again.
Who would have thought me Missy and Colin.
OK.
Player 1.
Make your move.
I will go with rock.
And so we're not really displaying this very well we should we should change this to say computer plays.
And rather than just concatenating Let's use an F string.
So then in here we need our little curly braces.
Perfect.
Let's test it out again.
So I'll play paper this time computer play scissors computer wins I'll play paper again.
Computer plays rock player wins.
So a really simple change we could make is to make it case insensitive and basically all we care about
is that a player could enter in capital R for rock or capital P for paper or all caps.
And there's a really easy way to get around that.
Basically we take all of the input from the player and we turn it into lowercase.
And the way we do that we haven't really talked about this either.
So another sneak preview of where we're going.
But this is a string function that will take a string and turn it to lowercase.
So if I opened up Python 3 and I did hello that lower we get hello and lower.
Same thing if I did rock with C K uppercase lowercase is it.
So basically takes everything coming in from from input whatever the user types.
Rock paper scissors.
However it's capitalized.
We turn it all into lowercase and then that's all we need to do because we're just comparing it now
to the string rock here and paper.
Of course we could also turn it into uppercase and just compare it to all uppercase.
Either direction would go up or down to lowercase.
Now one must change we could make.
We can be done here but if we wanted to shorten this even more.
So if you step to the logic so let's say Player 1 or player can be played rock.
I played rock and the first thing we check was that the computer play rock.
And if the answer is no ok then we move on.
So if Coltart player played rock did the computer play scissors.
If so the computer wins.
Then we have an elf computer plays paper.
But what other choice is there for the computer.
Because unlike in the previous example where we had two humans so player 2 could have entered anything.
Computer has only three choices.
It's rock paper scissors.
Exactly that and nothing else.
So we don't even have to check here is computer paper.
We could just do an else print computer went.
So that makes sense because again step through that if I play rock if the computer played rock it's
a tie.
If the computer played scissors I win.
And the only other option is that the computer wins because the computer played Paper.
That's the only you know there's only three choices.
So we can do that same thing down here just refactor that.
Now some people would argue it's actually better to keep this to be more explicit because now you can
see that this only occurs when computer plays rock.
But other people would say it's better to be more succinct.
And we don't need to have that additional logic totally up to you.
OK so I'll just change this down here to say Please enter a valid move.
See if I somehow forgot another colon somewhere.
OK so let's say I play paper computer plays paper it's a tie I play paper again computer plays rock.
This time I play something that doesn't make sense like Jell-O.
Please enter a valid move.
The only thing I would change instead of saying player 1.
Let's change this to player.
Make your move OK.
And one last really quick thing that we can change it for only using rant from random.
We can actually change this to be from random import Rand.
And then down here I'm able to just reference Rand.
And so it's just the exact same thing but appear I'm only importing Rand and.
And then I can use rand into directly without having to say random dot random.
So minor minor change just make sure that I didn't break it.
Rock and peer push paper computer wins.
OK we're done.
Congratulations.
If you made it through that or if you keep it on your own it's an achievement just to watch a video
this long.
I try to keep video shorter so I apologize if you fell asleep or done with Rock Paper Scissors.
We talked about rent an import.
We will come back to those when we talk about modules.
All right.
Moving on we're now going to talk about loop's so ways of repeating things in our code which would really
help with this game to be honest.
Because right now you play this game once and then you're done.
But what if you wanted to play best of five and keep score and have the game start over.
Well with loop's we'll be able to do that.